Asana RL Seed Data Simulation
Overview

This repository generates a high-fidelity, realistic seed dataset simulating an enterprise Asana workspace.
The dataset is designed for reinforcement learning (RL) environments evaluating computer-use AI agents performing project management workflows such as task navigation, assignment, completion, and filtering.

The simulation represents a B2B SaaS company with ~7,500 employees using Asana for Engineering, Product, Marketing, Sales, and Operations workflows over a 6-month historical window.

The primary goal is data realism, not synthetic randomness, ensuring that RL agents trained on this environment do not exploit unrealistic shortcuts.

Key Features

Realistic organizational hierarchy (organization → teams → projects)

Task, subtask, comment, and tag structures aligned with real Asana usage

Empirically grounded distributions for:

Task completion rates

Due dates and overdue tasks

Assignment patterns

Temporal and relational consistency enforced across all entities

Modular, extensible data generation pipeline

SQLite output compatible with downstream RL environments

Repository Structure
asana-rl-seed-data-simulation/
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── schema.sql
├── .env.example
├── src/
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── scrapers/
│   ├── generators/
│   ├── models/
│   └── utils/
├── prompts/
└── output/
    └── asana_simulation.sqlite

Directory Overview

schema.sql
Defines the complete relational schema for the Asana simulation.

src/main.py
Entry point that orchestrates data generation in the correct dependency order.

src/generators/
Entity-specific generators (users, teams, projects, tasks, comments, etc.).

src/utils/
Shared utilities for:

Date and time logic

Probability distributions

UUID generation

LLM interaction (if enabled)

prompts/
Prompt templates used for LLM-based text generation (task names, descriptions).

output/
Contains the final generated SQLite database.

Setup Instructions
1. Clone the Repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd asana-rl-seed-data-simulation

2. Install Dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Configure Environment Variables

Copy the example configuration:

cp .env.example .env


Edit .env as needed:

OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
DATABASE_PATH=output/asana_simulation.sqlite
START_DATE=2025-07-01
END_DATE=2025-12-31
NUM_USERS=7500


Note:
If LLM generation is disabled, the OpenAI key is not required.

4. Generate the Dataset
python src/main.py


This command:

Initializes the SQLite database

Creates all tables defined in schema.sql

Populates all entities with realistic data

Outputs the final database to output/asana_simulation.sqlite

Data Generation Flow (Important)

To preserve relational and temporal consistency, data is generated in the following order:

Organization

Users

Teams

Team Memberships

Projects

Sections

Custom Field Definitions

Tasks and Subtasks

Tags and Task-Tag Associations

Comments

This order mirrors real Asana dependency constraints and prevents invalid references.

Realism & Methodology Highlights

Task Completion Rates
Vary by project type (e.g., sprint vs. operational work)

Due Dates
Follow planning horizon distributions and avoid weekends in most cases

Assignments
Weighted by team membership; ~15% of tasks intentionally left unassigned

Edge Cases Included

Overdue tasks

Empty sections

Tasks without descriptions

Completed projects

These characteristics are essential to prevent shortcut learning in RL agents.

Output

The final SQLite database contains:

Thousands of users

Thousands of projects

Tens of thousands of tasks and subtasks

Hundreds of thousands of comments and activity records

The database is fully relational, queryable, and suitable for:

RL environment simulation

Model evaluation

Offline policy training

Reproducibility & Configuration

All key parameters (organization size, date range, volume) are configurable via environment variables or centralized configuration files, enabling reproducible experiments at different scales.

Notes

The repository prioritizes clarity, correctness, and realism over raw volume.

All generation logic aligns with the methodology documented in the accompanying Google Doc.

The schema and data model are intentionally designed to resemble real Asana behavior, not a simplified abstraction.

License

This project is provided for evaluation and research purposes only.
